Update alert-types.mdx (#8027)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/alerts/alert-types.mdx

<Include name="feature-available-for-plan-team.mdx" />

> Metric alerts tell you when a [metric](/product/performance/metrics/) crosses a threshold set by you, such as a spike in the number of errors in a project, or a change in a performance metric, like [transaction duration](/product/performance/metrics/#latency), [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex), [failure rate](/product/performance/metrics/#failure-rate), or [throughput](/product/performance/metrics/#throughput-total-tpm-tps).

Author: ```suggestion
Metric alerts tell you when a [metric](/product/performance/metrics/) crosses a threshold set by you, like a spike in the number of errors in a project, or a change in a performance metric, such as [transaction duration](/product/performance/metrics/#latency), [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex), [failure rate](/product/performance/metrics/#failure-rate), or [throughput](/product/performance/metrics/#throughput-total-tpm-tps).
```

- **Users Experiencing Errors:**
  Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.

### Sessions (Crash Rate Alerts)

Crash rate alerts can give you a better picture of the health of your app on a per project basis or in a specific release. They trigger when the crash-free percentage for either [sessions or users](/product/releases/health/#active-sessionsusers) falls below a specific threshold. This could happen because of a spike in the number of session or user [crashes](/product/releases/health/#crash).

- **Crash Free Session Rate:**
  Alerts when the number of crashed sessions exceeds the threshold you set. A session begins when a user starts the application and ends when it’s closed or sent to the background. A crash is when a session ends due to an error.

- **Crash Free User Rate:**
  Alerts when the overall user experience dips below the threshold you set. Crash Free Users represents the percentage of individual users who haven’t experienced a crash.

### Performance

Application performance alerts can help you pinpoint and identify specific problems that may be causing a suboptimal experience for your users.

> - **Throughput**
>   Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.
> 
> - **Transaction Duration**
>   Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions.
> 
> **TIP:** The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.
> 
> - **Apdex**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Throughput:**
  Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.

- **Transaction Duration:**
  Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions.

**TIP:** The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.

- **Apdex:**
```

  Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint). Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.

> - **Failure Rate**
>   Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions). Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.
> 
> - **Largest Contentful Display**
>   Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport.
> 
> **TIP:** A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.
> 
> - **First Input Delay**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Failure Rate:**
  Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions). Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.

- **Largest Contentful Display:**
  Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport.

**TIP:** A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.

- **First Input Delay:**
```

### Errors

Error alerts are useful for monitoring the overall level of errors in your project, errors occurring in specific parts of your app, or errors affecting your users.

> - **Number of Errors**
>   Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.
> 
> - **Users Experiencing Errors**
>   Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Number of Errors:**
  Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.

- **Users Experiencing Errors:**
  Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.
```

### Sessions (Crash Rate Alerts)

Crash rate alerts can give you a better picture of the health of your app on a per project basis or in a specific release. They trigger when the crash-free percentage for either [sessions or users](/product/releases/health/#active-sessionsusers) falls below a specific threshold. This could happen because of a spike in the number of session or user [crashes](/product/releases/health/#crash).

> - **Crash Free Session Rate**

Reviewer: Since these aren't headers of any sort, I assume we can't link to them right? In that case, are we thinking of just linking users to this page from the API documentation (as opposed to linking each metric alert type directly to its section on this page)?

Reviewer 2: This is a good point - we could add anchors to these bullets so we can link to them directly.

Author: Hi there, great question. I think we should link the H3 Metric Alert type headers, so Errors, Sessions, and Performance. What do you think?

Reviewer: I think that'd be the next best solution if we can't add anchors to the bullets!

> - **Crash Free Session Rate**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free Session Rate:**
```

  Alerts when the number of crashed sessions exceeds the threshold you set. A session begins when a user starts the application and ends when it’s closed or sent to the background. A crash is when a session ends due to an error.

> - **Crash Free User Rate**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free User Rate:**
```

  Alerts when the overall user experience dips below the threshold you set. Crash Free Users represents the percentage of individual users who haven’t experienced a crash.

### Performance

Application performance alerts can help you pinpoint and identify specific problems that may be causing a suboptimal experience for your users.

> 
> - **Throughput**
>   Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.
> 
> - **Transaction Duration**
>   Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions.
> 
> **TIP:** The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.
> 
> - **Apdex**
>   Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint). Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.
> 
> - **Failure Rate**
>   Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions). Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.
> 
> - **Largest Contentful Display**
>   Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport.
> 
> **TIP:** A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.
> 
> - **First Input Delay**
>   Alerts when First Input Delay (FID), which measures the response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport, is longer than expected.

Author: ```suggestion

- **Throughput:**
  Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.

- **Transaction Duration:**
  Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions.

**TIP:** The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.

- **Apdex:**
  Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint). Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.

- **Failure Rate:**
  Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions). Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.

- **Largest Contentful Display:**
  Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport.

**TIP:** A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.

- **First Input Delay:**
  Alerts when First Input Delay (FID), which measures the response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport, is longer than expected.
```

**TIP:** A low FID helps ensure that a page is useful. We recommend a FID of less than 100 milliseconds.

> #### Cumulative Layout Shift
> 
> Alerts when cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures visual stability by quantifying unexpected layout shifts that occur during the entire lifespan of the page, increases.
> 
> A CLS of less than 0.1 translates to a good user experience, while anything greater than 0.25 is poor.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Cumulative Layout Shift:**
Alerts when cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures visual stability by quantifying unexpected layout shifts that occur during the entire lifespan of the page, increases.

**TIP:** A CLS of less than 0.1 translates to a good user experience, while anything greater than 0.25 is poor.
```

> #### Custom Metric
> 
> Alert on metrics which are not listed above, such as first paint (FP), first contentful paint (FCP) and time to first byte (TTFB).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Custom Metric:**
Alerts on metrics which are not listed above, such as first paint (FP), first contentful paint (FCP) and time to first byte (TTFB).
```

#### Number of Errors

Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.

#### Users Experiencing Errors

Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.

### Sessions (Crash Rate Alerts)

Crash rate alerts can give you a better picture of the health of your app on a per project basis or in a specific release. They trigger when the crash-free percentage for either [sessions or users](/product/releases/health/#active-sessionsusers) falls below a specific threshold. This could happen because of a spike in the number of session or user [crashes](/product/releases/health/#crash).

#### Crash Free Session Rate

Alerts when the number of crashed sessions exceeds the threshold you set.

A session begins when a user starts the application and ends when it’s closed or sent to the background. A crash is when a session ends due to an error.

#### Crash Free User Rate

Alerts when the overall user experience dips below the threshold you set.

Crash Free Users represents the percentage of individual users who haven’t experienced a crash.

> ### Performance

Author: ```suggestion
### Performance

Application performance alerts can help you pinpoint and identify specific problems that could be causing a suboptimal experience for your users.
```

#### Throughput

Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.

#### Transaction Duration

This alert can be set to monitor how long it takes for transactions to complete. It can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.

#### Apdex

Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint).

Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.

#### Failure Rate

Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions).

Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.

#### Largest Contentful Display

> Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) measures loading performance. It marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport. A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.

Author: ```suggestion
Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. 

LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport. A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.
```

#### First Input Delay

> First Input Delay (FID) measures interactivity as the response time when the user tries to interact with the viewport. A low FID helps ensure that a page is useful, and we recommend a FID of less than 100 milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
Alerts when First Input Delay (FID), which measures the response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport, is longer than expected. 

A low FID helps ensure that a page is useful. We recommend a FID of less than 100 milliseconds.
```

#### Cumulative Layout Shift

> Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS) measures visual stability by quantifying unexpected layout shifts that occur during the entire lifespan of the page. A CLS of less than 0.1 is a good user experience, while anything greater than 0.25 is poor.

Author: ```suggestion
Alerts when cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures visual stability by quantifying unexpected layout shifts that occur during the entire lifespan of the page, increases. 

A CLS of less than 0.1 translates to a good user experience, while anything greater than 0.25 is poor.
```

#### Custom Metric

> Alert on metrics which are not listed above, such as first paint (FP), first contentful paint (FCP) and time to first byte (TTFB).

Author: ```suggestion
Custom alerts that can be set up to be triggered by metrics which are not listed above, such as first paint (FP), first contentful paint (FCP) and time to first byte (TTFB).
```

### Errors

Error alerts are useful for monitoring the overall level of errors in your project, errors occurring in specific parts of your app, or errors affecting your users.

> #### Number of Errors

Author: Adding Level 4 headers is more of an accessibility consideration. It helps screen readers "read" in the right order and also translate the level of importance :)

> #### Number of Errors

Reviewer 2: I feel that these headers need to be distinguished though. It's not immediately obvious that "Errors" is a section header for all the following specific types of error-related alerts:

<img width="747" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-02 at 5 03 15 PM" src="https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/assets/3520671/ec519397-95fb-4b1e-80d4-467c74468eeb">

> #### Number of Errors

Reviewer 2: One idea is to bold the L3 headers?

> #### Number of Errors

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Number of Errors**
```

Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.

> #### Users Experiencing Errors

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Users Experiencing Errors**
```

> - **Number of Errors**
> 
> Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.
> 
> - **Users Experiencing Errors**
> 
> Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Number of Errors**
Alerts when the number of errors in a project matching your filters crosses the threshold you set.

- **Users Experiencing Errors**
Alerts when the number of users affected by errors in your project crosses the threshold you set.
```

### Sessions (Crash Rate Alerts)

Crash rate alerts can give you a better picture of the health of your app on a per project basis or in a specific release. They trigger when the crash-free percentage for either [sessions or users](/product/releases/health/#active-sessionsusers) falls below a specific threshold. This could happen because of a spike in the number of session or user [crashes](/product/releases/health/#crash).

> #### Crash Free Session Rate

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free Session Rate**
```

> - **Crash Free Session Rate**
> 
> Alerts when the number of crashed sessions exceeds the threshold you set.
> 
> A session begins when a user starts the application and ends when it’s closed or sent to the background. A crash is when a session ends due to an error.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free Session Rate**
Alerts when the number of crashed sessions exceeds the threshold you set. A session begins when a user starts the application and ends when it’s closed or sent to the background. A crash is when a session ends due to an error.
```

> #### Crash Free User Rate

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free User Rate**
```

> - **Crash Free User Rate**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Crash Free User Rate**
Alerts when the overall user experience dips below the threshold you set. Crash Free Users represents the percentage of individual users who haven’t experienced a crash.
```

> Alerts when the overall user experience dips below the threshold you set.
> 
> Crash Free Users represents the percentage of individual users who haven’t experienced a crash.

Author: ```suggestion

```

### Performance

> Application performance alerts can help you pinpoint and identify specific problems that could be causing a suboptimal experience for your users.

Author: ```suggestion
Application performance alerts can help you pinpoint and identify specific problems that may be causing a suboptimal experience for your users.
```

> #### Throughput

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Throughput**
```

Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.

> #### Transaction Duration

Author: ```suggestion
- **Transaction Duration**
```

> This alert can be set to monitor how long it takes for transactions to complete. It can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.

Reviewer 2: Should we rephrase this to start with "Alerts on..." to match the others?

```suggestion
Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions. The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.
```

Author: Great point!

> #### Apdex

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Apdex**
```

> - **Throughput**
> 
> Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.
> 
> #### Transaction Duration
> 
> Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions. The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.
> 
> #### Apdex
> 
> Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint).
> 
> Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
- **Throughput**
Alerts when throughput (the total number of transactions in a project) reaches a threshold set by you within a specified period of time.

- **Transaction Duration**
Alerts when transaction durations meet certain conditions. 

**TIP:** The conditions can be customized with flexible aggregates like percentiles, averages, and min/max.

- **Apdex**
Alerts on the Apdex score (the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint). Apdex is a metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on your application response times.

```

> #### Failure Rate

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Failure Rate**
```

Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions).

Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.

> #### Largest Contentful Display

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Largest Contentful Display**
```

Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected.

LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport. A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.

> #### First Input Delay

Author: ```suggestion
-  **First Input Delay**
```

> - **Failure Rate**
> 
> Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions).
> 
> Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.
> 
> - **Largest Contentful Display**
> 
> Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected.
> 
> LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport. A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.
> 
> - **First Input Delay**
> 
> Alerts when First Input Delay (FID), which measures the response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport, is longer than expected.
> 
> A low FID helps ensure that a page is useful. We recommend a FID of less than 100 milliseconds.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Failure Rate**
Alerts on failure rate (the percentage of unsuccessful transactions). Sentry treats transactions with a status other than “ok,” “canceled,” and “unknown” as failures.

- **Largest Contentful Display**
Alerts when the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which measures loading performance, is loading slower than expected. LCP marks the point when the largest image or text block is visible within the viewport. 

**TIP:** A fast LCP helps reassure the user that the page is useful. We recommend an LCP of less than 2.5 seconds.

- **First Input Delay**
Alerts when First Input Delay (FID), which measures the response time when a user tries to interact with the viewport, is longer than expected. 

**TIP:** A low FID helps ensure that a page is useful. We recommend a FID of less than 100 milliseconds.
```

> #### Cumulative Layout Shift

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Cumulative Layout Shift**
```

Alerts when cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures visual stability by quantifying unexpected layout shifts that occur during the entire lifespan of the page, increases.

A CLS of less than 0.1 translates to a good user experience, while anything greater than 0.25 is poor.

> #### Custom Metric

Author: ```suggestion
-  **Custom Metric**
```
